Tell me when to start.
Right now.
Okay.
This is recording now?
Yes, it is.
Can it hear me?
Yep.
Okay.
Now, if I were to write a book, the most important thing is the title.
In my case, I don't know what kind of a title, but I will say this.
This should be the title.
How I Got to America.
All right?
Yep.
So far, so good.
Sounds good.
Okay.
We'll go as far back as 1909, although I was born in 1911.
Keep going, I'll be right back.
So in 1909, my father George, he had a problem.
He certainly did have a problem.
He was serving in the army, and one day one of the boys in the village, a little kid, came running up to
He found out where Georgie was based, and he found out where he had the duty.
And he had a very, very serious message for him.
He told him, this little boy, that his sister had been kidnapped and taken into the hills.
At that point, Georgie didn't say a word.
He took off.
He went AWOL.
The village was about three miles away from where he was stationed.
And the first thing he did, he got the story from his father, whose name was Jimmy.
And the father told him that this one of the boys in the village had asked for the hand
in marriage of his daughter whose name was Alexandria.
But he was refused because in those days you had to have a fairly decent family and my grandfather or Jimmy had a feeling that this guy just wasn't good enough for his daughter.
So this guy got a couple of his friends and they kidnapped Alexandra and they took her into the hills.
And they kept her there for two weeks.
They ravaged her.
They did everything imaginable that can be done to her.
Well, it just wasn't decent.
After the two weeks, they brought her back.
They dumped her off in front of the house.
So at that point, that's when the boy was summoned to go find George and tell him what happened.
So George, that's my father,
He went over to the mantelpiece, and there was a rifle there, and he took three bullets, and he went into the village and found where they all congregate at night.
And they're sitting there, and there's the three guys together.
As soon as they saw George coming, they get up, and they all scattered in three directions except one guy.
And Georgie raised the rifle, put a bullet right between the eyes.
Another guy was going up the wall.
He got him.
The bullet entered the base of the spine and came out from his neck.
It was from a rifle, of course.
Now the third guy, the actual one that committed the whole thing, was running up the road.
So George chased him up the road, kept trotting away, and finally about a mile or so up the road, the guy collapsed on the ground, looked up, said, George, don't do it, don't do it.
He stuck the end of the rifle into his mouth and blew his brains apart.
Now, he left the body there, went back to the village, told them what they did.
Nobody there, they had an idea what was going on, but they just didn't want to interfere.
Now...
What were they going to do with George?
They started a collection, they got money together, and they decided that they would send him to America.
In those days, they didn't have the immigration laws that they have today.
Everything was wide open.
The United States was welcoming people from all over the world to come in and get the land going, get everything going, the economy.
So, George with his friends, following morning, they hustled him off.
They got him on a little ship that left Piraeus, and they went into a harbor in France.
From there, the boat sailed to America.
When he got to New York, he managed to have a little money left, and he went out to Omaha, Nebraska.
Now, mind you, he's escaping from this thing.
He's gone AWL.
He killed three guys, and now he went to Omaha.
There he found a job.
He was told that they had slaughterhouses there.
He had been a cook in the Army, so he thought he'd feel pretty natural.
He worked in the slaughterhouse.
He gave him his real name.
He didn't think anybody would go after him.
While he was working there, George was an entrepreneur.
Prohibition was going on.
Booze was illegal.
He managed to get enough money together to get this little building, so he started a house of prostitution.
He provided sex for his co-workers, and in addition to that, he made booze.
He distilled it, bottled it himself,
He was a very capable man, so he had it coming three ways.
He had the job, he was selling booze, and he was taking care of the boys.
As soon as he got about over $10,000 saved together, he had a letter from his brother Jimmy telling him that everything was all set for the trial.
A trial to try him for the three men that he had killed.
He went back to Greece.
Incidentally, the name of the village was called in those days Miritsa, but today it's called Oxinia.
O-X-Y.
Well, anyway, you get it.
As soon as he got back, it was a big celebration.
George was there.
There he was greeted by his wife, my mother, and they had one son, Jimmy.
And the people in the village, the authorities knew that he was going to stand trial, so they didn't arrest him.
The day of the trial came, and we don't go into detail because this thing could last forever, this little... You're going to condense it, I'm sure.
The high point that I remember my father telling me was when the judge looked at him and he said, George Bazbanes, you stand before me.
accused of murdering three men.
Are you guilty or not guilty?
So the old man said, guilty.
Then he said, why did you kill him?
And then George says, I killed him because I defended the honor of my family.
My sister was kidnapped.
He went through the whole bit.
And you deserted the army.
Yes, to do this.
And then the judge says, but you didn't have any, you shouldn't have killed them.
And George says, Your Honor, what would you have done if you found that your sister was kidnapped and raped?
So the judge, I'm not on trial, you are.
Okay, said George, I'm all set.
I am guilty.
Do what you want with me.
So you are guilty.
Okay.
The judge took off.
He was gone for about a half an hour.
I guess he had a couple of drinks or something.
There was no jury.
Come back.
He says, okay, my verdict is that you are guilty and I'm going to place this case on file.
Yay!
That was a big celebration.
That went on and on.
Now, mind you, it was at that point where I was conceived.
You hear me?
Conceived.
And now you say, how did I get to America?
Well, when my mother was about eight months along or so, then my father decided to bring her and Jimmy, and there I am in the old satchel, to America.
This time, when they got to New York, some friends from Lowell were waiting for him.
They were pre-warned that George was coming.
So they got to...
Lowell, Massachusetts.
How, I don't know.
And it was in a stormy winter night, and it was December the 24th, 1911.
As soon as he got to a little house on Little Street, it's in the village at that time.
There were all Greeks there.
That's right off Dummer Street.
It isn't there anymore.
That night I was born, day before Christmas, by a midwife.
And there was no heat in the house.
And all the neighbors got together, hot blankets, hot water.
So that ends the story about how I got to America.
December the 24th, 1911.
Now we can continue this later.
All right?
All right.
I've reached that point.
Shut it off.
How do you shut it off?
I've reached that point, I'll tell you.
Before I continue this story, I must tell you what my father did when he was in the village, when he was getting my mother ready to come back and celebrating and having a great time making me, say it any way you want.
He had, he left over $10,000.
Do you know what $10,000 was in 1911?
It was an awful lot of money.
They took that and they made a church and a school, and that's what my father left for the village before he left.
Now he was a free man, and he could continue his pursuit of life, liberty.
and happiness in the new world.
It was then, just about at that point, I think I've gone through that.
So now I'll continue.
How do you stop it again?
The middle one?
Now, the situation in 1911 in Lowell was really a melting pot.
It had a mixture of the Irish, the French, and the Greeks were coming in.
The main reason was that cotton mills were hiring.
Of course, they had to work from sunrise to sunset.
and all they made was about three four dollars a week so my old man got a job in the boot mills and cotton now there's my mother settled on three little street with two children jimmy and me and and as soon as my mother recovered
From the birth with me, the old man got her pregnant again.
And who was born a year and a half later?
My sister, Alexandria.
So now there we are with three children.
My father, he was a very virile, strong man.
No sooner did she recover from that, this is my mother,
from the birth of Alexandria, she got pregnant again.
Now, this was a little too much for her.
So the old man, he couldn't take her to a hospital.
So there was a doctor, Dr. Getzopoulos.
He was known as a venereal disease type doctor.
So when my mother was giving birth to this other baby, the last one,
He didn't do the right things, and she died.
So there she was with an unborn child.
Now, my brother Jimmy, he was running along with a bunch of wild kids.
At that time, he was 13 years old.
Two weeks after my mother died, he drowned up there in the river where the Lowell Technological Institute is.
in those rapids down there.
He drowned with another fellow, Andrew Drinas.
Okay.
Now this was too much for my father to bear.
Here he is stuck with two children, me and my sister.
So he was advised by Teddy Kutras, a guy who was a barber.
They called him the mayor of Duma Street.
He told my father to take me
to take us to an orphanage called the Air Home.
And this was a home for motherless children.
And I remember that trip walking down Fletcher Street with my sister.
We couldn't speak a word of English.
We had an interpreter.
And then when we got to the home, and we still see Mrs. Tarr interviewing us, finally we were accepted.
So there I am in the Air Home, and my old man,
did not live at 3 Little Street any longer because he lost his family practically.
So he took up residence on Market Street.
Now we're right in the heart of the ghetto, Market Street.
My sister and I are in the home.
Okay.
By the time I was about 11 years old, my father decided to take me out.
of the home.
He left my sister in there.
That's when I was like a suddenly released animal that was caged.
I went wild.
I had a lot of energy.
I didn't know what to do with it.
And we were
And I was running around.
This Teddy Kutus again says, George, you've got to take that son of yours who's going to get in trouble.
Take him to the YMCA.
I remember that.
I went to the Y. I'll never forget that beautiful, wonderful man, Mr. Williams.
He took a personal interest in me.
He tried to tone me down.
Well, I'm going to eat dinner now.
We'll talk about this later.
How do you stop it?
Press the blue button.
The blue one?
Blue.
There you go.
I'll be out in a little while.
Yeah, okay.
I have... I feel as if I've admitted something very important.
When I was in the air home, I was just about five years old.
I had been in there for about a year.
On my way to school...
with a bunch of little kids.
Well, it was like kindergarten.
Midwinter, they had a snowball fight, and I got hit in the face with a snowball, some of the older guys.
World War I was going on at the time, and they didn't have any doctors around.
There were no miracle drugs like penicillin, sulfur, you name it.
There were just none.
And the matrons in the air home, they didn't look after you as a mother would.
So my jaw, my face right under the eye, got infected.
And I had a swelling about as big as a grapefruit practically.
I went into the air, I went into the, they sent me to the hospital.
In those days it was called the Corporation Hospital.
And there was a doctor by the name of Dr. Baker, Stowell Baker.
He was an eye doctor, and there he was performing surgery.
So he cut me open, and to make a long story short, he left me with a scar that changed my whole attitude that had a lot to do with my outlook on life.
a scar where I could touch the tip of it with my tongue, and it extended up to the corner of my left eye.
Now, a five or six-year-old kid with something like that develops an inferiority complex.
This made me feel that kids were staring at me, and they were.
They were cruel in those days.
The older guys would say, hey, scar face, and so on.
So while I was in the home, I was constantly being harassed by the older kids.
So when my father finally got me out about the age of 11, this complex continued.
It continued.
And now when I was on the streets, a free man, because my old man at that time was working at the sack of old shops.
He was in the foundry.
and he was also making booze.
We were living on Market Street.
It was just about that time when I got into the Y, and now the kids over there were real bad about the scar on my face.
Then I'd go over to the Lowell Boys Club, and they'd started, especially the Irish kids.
Hey, Greek, hey, Scarface.
That infuriated me, and I was a tough little guy, and I really flattened a lot of them.
I was pretty good, but I wanted... Now I'm going along, it's like 12, 13, 14 years old, and this scar was very, very with me.
I just didn't know how to cope.
So Mr. Williams at the YMCA took a personal interest in me.
He says, Johnny, you can't go through life with a chip on your shoulder.
You can't have people, you imagine that people are staring at you on account of the scar.
Miss Mansfield at the Bartlett School, she was another person that tried to help me out psychologically.
Major J's at the Boys Club, he didn't try to help me like that.
What he did was promote fights.
He'd get an Irishman to call me out.
Scarface, and he knew that there'd be a fight.
He couldn't find a guy that could lick me.
So I developed an attitude that I should be a boxer, a fighter, but T.R.
Williams talked me out of it.
He says, a good wallop on the side of your face will split that scar open.
Don't do it.
He says, if you want to help yourself and your fellow man,
He says, be successful, be good, be of service to people, try to help people, and they won't look at your scar, they'll look at you.
That was his gospel.
I loved that man.
My father was very busy at the time, busy working in the foundry, selling booze, and I'd come home and he'd have a different woman night after night.
This happened mostly when we were up on Worthen Street.
Worden Street was in the same section, but it was very close to the Sackle Oil shops where he worked.
Now we're in the 20s, and all this was going on.
So in the Bartlett School, I was beginning to get over the scar because Miss Mansfield constantly took me aside, and she talked to me, and she made me feel so good.
she talked to me like a mother as you know which I didn't have and T.R.
Williams at the Y so between the two of them they they molded a character that I feel is with me this very day I can look a person square in the face today and not think about my appearance and the reason why well let's see now let's
All my thoughts are coming to me very fast.
But this car was very important to me.
And I felt as if I had conquered it until I met Georgia.
One day I walked into the store where she worked.
She was working as a clerk in a dry cleaning store.
At this time, I'm in my 20s now, I was driving a truck for laundry.
And I had loaned $10 to this fellow by the name of Chris.
Chris Pelicasas, to be exact.
I walked into this door, and there's this little girl.
She was about 17, 18, not 18, reading a book.
She didn't even look up.
She finished the page, and then she looked up and looked me square in the face.
And she looked up, and she said, what an interesting scar you have.
Well, let me tell you something.
It was just like the bomb in Hiroshima.
I looked at that girl and I fell in love with her that very minute.
She was telling me that I had an interesting scar.
Well, I married her two years later.
Okay, now we'll forget that part.
Now, let's see.
Mother's death.
I have explained that.
My father's lifestyle.
Okay, he was...
Like I say, he worked in the foundry.
He was busy with the women, one woman after another, and an orphanage.
And I have to explain my stay at the orphanage.
How did this influence you?
Well, I think that the final, the bottom line on those three categories stayed until I met Georgia.
After Georgia, it was just another world, another outlook.
Oh, yeah, wait a minute now.
Before I met Georgia, I was pretty active in sports.
I was a city tennis champ.
I was a two-state diving champ.
I went for individual sports.
I swam on the river.
I won races.
I tried to prove that a five-foot-six person was just as good as a six-footer.
by going into individual sports.
I was not a good team player, even though I was busy at the Y. I didn't go for basketball.
I couldn't anyway.
I was too short.
But in the summer, T.R.
Williams let me work my way out at the Y by washing dishes.
And then I worked my way up to head cook.
So in 1932, I got my job.
driving a truck.
And then I met Georgia in 1935.
And then in 1939... Wait a minute.
I met Georgia in 19... 1937.
And then we got married in 1939.
And all this time I'm driving a truck for scriptures laundry.
Incidentally, I started off at $10 a week
and I finally finished up at 35.
That was big money.
My boss wouldn't give me any more money in 1942.
I get a job up at Remington Arms making bullets, and that's when I started my business.
I had a 1942 station wagon.
I went out and picked up laundry, dry cleaning, and I had them done by local laundries.
Now, at that time, I was living up on Third Street with George, and I had two sons, George and Nick, one married in 41, one in 43.
The most important thing that one must remember in my life was that I had this inferiority complex on the count of my scar.
There was a lot of bigotry going on in those days.
The Irish were fighting the Greeks.
The Greeks were fighting the Irish.
The French, they didn't get into the fights very much.
But they stayed by themselves and they thought that they were the greatest in the world.
All this stuff was going on.
And World War II come along.
And by that time, people were pretty well broad-minded.
They were getting over this bigotry.
And it was not a bad attitude.
And Georgia always gave me the feeling that I was a very much superior person than the ordinary person.
She talked me out of quitting the laundry as a driver and going in for myself.
Very ambitious, aggressive, and a good mother.
a wonderful influence and between the two of us we started a business up on well at first we were wrapping the shirts up in the cellar at home on Christian Street and she worked very hard two sons and taking care of two little boys
one three one one boy two years between them very young running the business 1945 i was drafted i went into the navy i was in for one year and while i was in there george had tried keeping the business going but she couldn't take it it was too much when i got out in 1946 we still had the station wagon
And I continued where I left off, getting people to do the work.
This went on.
We were working from the cellar in a building in the back of the house on Christian Street.
And then I saw this piece of land up on Middle 6th Street.
I got up over the girl that she knew me.
She helped me by it.
By, well, anyway, the lawyer was George Eliades.
And he was trying to sell the land to the Gulf Oil Company.
But she wanted me to have it.
And she wanted me to have it cheap.
So she helped me get it.
And that's where the plant that we have today...